When users are shopping online, not all will end up purchasing something. Most visitors to an online shopping website, in fact, likely don’t end up going through with a purchase during that web browsing session. It might be useful, though, for a shopping website to be able to predict whether a user intends to make a purchase or not: perhaps displaying different content to the user, like showing the user a discount offer if the website believes the user isn’t planning to complete the purchase. How could a website determine a user’s purchasing intent? That’s where machine learning will come in.

Your task in this problem is to build a nearest-neighbor classifier to solve this problem. Given information about a user — how many pages they’ve visited, whether they’re shopping on a weekend, what web browser they’re using, etc. — your classifier will predict whether or not the user will make a purchase. Your classifier won’t be perfectly accurate — perfectly modeling human behavior is a task well beyond the scope of this class — but it should be better than guessing randomly. To train your classifier, we’ll provide you with some data from a shopping website from about 12,000 users sessions.

How do we measure the accuracy of a system like this? If we have a testing data set, we could run our classifier on the data, and compute what proportion of the time we correctly classify the user’s intent. This would give us a single accuracy percentage. But that number might be a little misleading. Imagine, for example, if about 15% of all users end up going through with a purchase. A classifier that always predicted that the user would not go through with a purchase, then, we would measure as being 85% accurate: the only users it classifies incorrectly are the 15% of users who do go through with a purchase. And while 85% accuracy sounds pretty good, that doesn’t seem like a very useful classifier.

Instead, we’ll measure two values: sensitivity (also known as the “true positive rate”) and specificity (also known as the “true negative rate”). Sensitivity refers to the proportion of positive examples that were correctly identified: in other words, the proportion of users who did go through with a purchase who were correctly identified. Specificity refers to the proportion of negative examples that were correctly identified: in this case, the proportion of users who did not go through with a purchase who were correctly identified. So our “always guess no” classifier from before would have perfect specificity (1.0) but no sensitivity (0.0). Our goal is to build a classifier that performs reasonably on both metrics.
